---
title: Learn About Commerce iATS at the iATS Payments Webinar
layout: blog
body-class: blog-post
topic:
header-image:
header-image-alt:

author: dan
published: true
featured: false
short: Interested in using iATS with Drupal? Tune into our webinar for an in-depth look at Commerce iATS.
tags:
- iATS
- Commerce iATS
- iATS Payments
date: 2014-09-08 14:00:00
---

At DrupalCon Austin, I gave a presentation on [Commerce iATS](https://www.drupal.org/project/commerce_iats), the module we developed to integrate payment processing using iATS Payments into Drupal. [iATS Payments](http://home.iatspayments.com/) has made a huge investment in Drupal and the open source community by sponsoring development of Commerce iATS since April. They even had a presence at DrupalCon and were on hand to answer developers' questions. 

We're incredibly proud of the work we've done with iATS Payments, our preferred leading nonprofit payment provider. With the addition of our [Commerce iATS module](/blog/2014/05/commerce-iats-2-0/) this past year, Drupal users can utilize the stable, well-maintained payment gateway as we continue to improve upon the module and add more payment options for international users. 

If you missed us at DrupalCon, iATS Payments has you covered with an upcoming webinar and a new presentation about Commerce iATS, where we'll go over the great features the module has to offer, as well as our most recent additions to Commerce iATS.

We'll be breaking things up into three sections:

* An introduction to iATS Payments
* An overview of the Commerce iATS Module implementation and configuration
* A look at the code

We'll be covering all of the standard Commerce iATS capabilities:

* What Commerce iATS is and how it integrates with Drupal
* Accepting credit card, ACH/EFT and recurring payments
* Accepting Direct Debit payments from UK customers

We'll also be covering these recent Commerce iATS additions:

* Using Direct Post to securely send payments directly to iATS Payments
* Using an encrypted USB card reader to process payments with a physical credit card

The webinar will take place on Wednesday, September 17 from 11:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. PDT. The code review will be followed by a session of Q&A. Sign up to get your questions answered. [Registration is open now](https://www2.gotomeeting.com/register/433030410).

If you'd like to get some reading in before the webinar, you can brush up on iATS Payments at their recently launched [Developer Site](http://home.iatspayments.com/developers).
