---
layout: blog
body-class: blog-post
topic: archive
hidden: true
header-image:
header-image-alt:

title: "Meet the ThinkShout Team at DrupalCon Austin"
published: true
featured: false
author: stephanie
date: 2014-05-30 
short: Going to Austin next week? Check out our lineup of BoFs and sessions.
tags:
- Drupal Planet
- Drupal
- iATS Payments
- DrupalCon
- DrupalCon Austin
- fundraising
- email marketing
- Salesforce
---


Next week, ten members of the ThinkShout crew will ship out to Austin, Texas for DrupalCon 2014. This is our largest delegation yet and we couldn’t be more excited about it! We’ve got Drupal 8 on the brain and we’re sure you do, too. 

If you plan on attending DrupalCon in Austin, we’re always down to talk shop - or not shop. We’ll be all over the place during those four days, but here’s where you can find us:

### Exhibit Hall###

We’ll be sharing booth 508 with our partner and preferred nonprofit payment processor, iATS Payments. Stop by! We’d love to talk to you about the [exciting work we’re doing with the iATS Drupal Module.](/blog/2014/05/commerce-iats-2-0/) Dan Ruscoe himself will be available to discuss his work. 


### Official Sessions###

[“Student, Counselor, Advocate: The Many Hats of Content Strategists ”](https://austin2014.drupal.org/session/student-counselor-advocate-many-hats-content-strategists)  
Wednesday, 1:00-2:00pm,   
Room: 16 - Pantheon, 4th Floor

Brett Heckman and Brett Meyer will will provide you with some valuable techniques to help you facilitate a great discovery process.


### Birds of a Feather (BoF)###

The ThinkShout team will be leading a great variety of BoF sessions next week. Join in the conversations - we want to hear from you!


#### TUESDAY:####




Title: [Leveraging Salesforce with Drupal](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/leveraging-salesforce-drupal) with **Tauno Hogue**  
Room: 8A - JustDigital | 3rd floor  
Time: Tuesday, 2:15-3:15pm




Title: [Unmoderated Small Sample User Testing](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/unmoderated-small-sample-user-testing) with **Brett Meyer** (@brett_meyer) & **Sean Larkin** (@sean_larkin)  
Room: 10A - Ashday | 3rd floor  
Time: Tuesday, 2:15-3:15pm





Title: [Static Site Generators & Wireframes](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/static-site-generators-and-wireframes) with **Eric Paxton** & **Brett Heckman**  
Room: 8A - JustDigital | 3rd floor  
Time: Tuesday, 3:45-4:45pm



#### WEDNESDAY:####





Title: [Building Your Drupal-Based Business: What Keeps You Up at Night?](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/building-your-drupal-based-business-what-keeps-you-night) with **Sean Larkin** (@sean_larkin) **w/Chris Wolz** (@cwolz) of Forum One (@forumone)  
Room: 8B - Unicon | 3rd floor  
Time slot: Wednesday, 10:45-11:45




Title: [Email Marketing with Drupal](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/email-marketing-mailchimp-1) with **Lev Tsypin** (@levelos)  
Room: 10A - Ashday | 3rd floor  
Time: Wednesday, 3:45-4:45pm



#### THURSDAY:####




Title: [Nonprofit Fundraising with Drupal](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/nonprofit-fundraising-drupal) with **Lev Tsypin** (@levelos)  
Room: 8C - VLM | 3rd floor  
Time: Thursday, 10:45-11:45am




Title: [Leveraging Drupal Commerce for a Nonprofit Payment Provider](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/leveraging-drupal-commerce-nonprofit-payment-provider) with **Dan Ruscoe** (@danruscoe) and **Stephen Bestbier** of iATS Payments   
 Room: 8A - JustDigital | 3rd floor  
 Time slot: Thursday, 1:00-2:00pm




Title:  [Discovery Workshop](https://austin2014.drupal.org/bof/discovery-workshop-many-hats-content-strategists) with **Brett Heckman**  & **Brett Meyer** (@brett_meyer)  
Room: 10A - Ashday | 3rd floor  
Time: Thursday, 1:00-2:00pm



**If you can’t make it,** no worries. Get in touch with us and we’ll be happy to fill you in one what you missed. Twitter, email, carrier pigeon, whatever works for you. To those of you Austin-bound, we’ll see you there. Bring on the breakfast tacos!
