---
layout: blog
body-class: blog-post
topic:
header-image:
header-image-alt:

title: "Meet the ThinkShout Team at BADCamp!"
author: stephanie
published: true
featured: false
short: We're heading to the Bay Area Drupal Camp this week, and so should you!
tags: 
  - Salesforce
  - BADCamp
  - Drupal Planet
  - Drupal
  - RedHen
  - Nonprofit Tech
  - Events
date: 2015-10-20 13:00:00
---

It’s another big week for us here at ThinkShout. We’re getting ready for a jam-packed weekend of Drupal at BADCamp in Berkeley, California. As we previously mentioned, we’re leading [two half-day trainings](/blog/2015/09/badcamp-trainings-redhen-salesforce/) on Friday, October 23rd. We’re thrilled that this training is completely sold out, and we’re looking forward to sharing our Salesforce and RedHen CRM curriculum!

Once again, we’re a sponsor and co-organizer of the [Nonprofit Summit](https://2015.badcamp.net/event/summit/non-profit-summit), which takes place on Thursday, October 22nd. This summit is also free to attend, and we encourage anyone in the nonprofit tech world in the Bay Area to come out for a day full of nonprofit-led lightning talks, and intimate discussion groups focused on Drupal topics that matter to you. The schedule is now live, so be sure to check it out and register if you’re interested in attending! Our own Brett Meyer will be leading a breakout session at the summit on fundraising with Drupal that you won’t want to miss!

We’re also Contrib Sponsors to BADCamp this year, which means we’ll have a table in the Pauley Ballroom West. We’d love to see your shining faces and chat about all things Drupal, tech, nonprofits, and even cats. This is an especially great time for job seekers to get to know us and our mission a little bit better. We’re still looking for a few good [senior engineers](/careers/) to join our team, so if you think you might fit the bill, definitely drop by our table!	

We’re looking forward to seeing you all in Berkeley! 
